Paian
=====
(from "Paianjeni si piramide", "Spiders and Pyramids")

Timeline
--------

Last edit date is 22 Jun 1997.

Description
-----------

A Space Invaders kind of game that is actually a fond homage to a ZX Spectrum
BASIC type-in from my very first "learn to program" book.

The type-in was called "Paianjeni si piramide" (Spiders and Pyramids) and the
book, whose title I don't recall, was by some guy called Ion Diamandi. I suspect
it was nicked from somewhere, as was the norm at the time in Romania.
Regardless, I have very fond and vivid memories of typing it and running it for
the first time. It was in those days that I first discovered the immense joy of
programming and bringing my ideas to animated, colourful life on the screen.

The type-in had a fairly simple premise: when you ran it, it drew a desert-like
landscape featuring three pyramids which were then gradually "eaten" by arachnid
aliens dropping from above, one at a time. Further variants of the type-in
allowed you to control a laser with which you could swat the aliens out of the
sky and protect the pyramids.

"Paian" is built around the same idea, except the laser is now mounted on a
player-controllable ship, aliens drop in batches and at different speeds, and
there is also a UFO hovering around. There are multiple levels, each featuring
faster aliens. You move the ship left and right using 4 and 6 (think keypad)
and fire using the 8 key.

It's really amazing how many details pay homage to elements in the original
type-in. The alien sprite is the same, the pyramids are drawn in the same way,
even the graphic for the desert floor is the same color as the original.

Technical notes
---------------

The programming is rubbish, as would be expected from a 12-year old.

Note how the program has to draw all of the sprites on screen in its init phase
so that I can store in memory with GET for latter PUTting. I'm not sure if there
is a way to load them directly to memory, but I certainly didn't know of it
back then.

Emulation notes
---------------

Make sure you give the program enough cycles in DosBOX, or the sound may suffer.
