FM Tracker
==========

Timeline
--------

The file dates suggests a development period around Sep 1999.

Description
-----------

FM Tracker is a program for composing music playable by the FM synthesis chips
in cards like the Soundblaster or Adlib. It was intended to help me with making
theme music for my games, even though in the end only Astrozappers featured
music (and it was composed manually, before FM Tracker was ready).

The interface paradigm used is that of the 'trackers' that were used for making
sample-based music in formats such as .MOD, .XM, .IT, etc. (indeed, the famous
Impulse Tracker was my main inspiration for the interface design). This means
that the song is composed of 'tracks' that play simultaneously. Within a track
there is no polyphony and only one instrument can be active at a given time. The
user is responsible for placing note attack/decay events on the tracks, as well
as special 'effect' events that cause an instrument to sound differently, change
the track volume, repeat a portion of the song, etc.

Note the nice touches here and there: UDGs are used for giving icons to
instruments, drawing gauges and representing the various components of the drum
track (they even animate during playing!).

A simple FM organ program is also included.

Usage
-----

The interface is pretty straightforward if you've used trackers before. The
bar at the bottom of the screen shows all the functions you have access to at
the moment. Extra functions are accessed by holding down modifier keys,
Emacs-style. You spend your time between the track display, where you can
insert note events, and the instrument control area (you can switch to it
using TAB), where you can set up instruments for your song.

To try out any of the included songs, you need to press F3, then type in the
path to the song (there is no file browsing dialog!), e.g. "SONGS/ASTRO.FTM".
Then press F5 to play. To stop, press F8 and then Home to rewind the song before
loading another one (FM Tracker doesn't do this automatically).

Included Songs
--------------

ASTRO.FTM   : Intended as a remake of the Astrozappers theme (which was made
              manually before FM Tracker was ready). Unfinished.
ASTRO2.FTM  : Variant of the above that features a different intro. Unfinished.
DEMOSNG1.FTM: A transcription of a .MOD file that is itself a rendition of what
              is most likely a Bach prelude.
PACMAN_F.FTM: The intended theme song for PacMan Forever. A highly formulaic
              jazzy bit.
POP.FTM     : A transcription of a .MOD file rendition of the well-known song
              'Popcorn'. Unfinished.
TEMP.FTM    : One of my composition efforts. Unfinished.
WARTREK.FTM : An attempt at a theme for WarTrek. Unfinished.

Technical Notes
---------------

The code is, of course, rubbish. There is some understanding of the use of
functions, but also a worrying amount of copy-paste coding.

